the deadly B2B startup marketing sins
and how you can fix
[Music]
them welcome back to a fresh episode of
Breaking bb.com I'm your host Sam
Dunning and if you want to join
thousands of B2B Legends enjoying past
podcast
episodes daily B2B marketing tips
insights and more check out our daily
newsletter over at breaking
bb.com so today I'm joined by Anna
furmanov Anna is the founder over at
furmanov marketing Consulting she's also
host of a top B2B show called modern
startup marketing podcast Anna welcome
to the show how's it going thank you
thank you for having me yeah it's going
well you know you're you're pretty good
at marketing with your
deadly B2B startup marketing sins title
like starting something with deadly
people are like I have to listen to this
the clickbait and hook is real that's
for sure yes it's it's real so so so
before we dive in we're gonna be talking
about some of those sins we're gonna be
talking about kind of how you can
address them we'll also dive a little
bit into some of the Frameworks you use
Anna and if we've got time we'll dive
into kind of what the top channel is for
driving inbound for your
business so as we always do let's dive
straight straight into it without being
around the bush what are some of those
deadly sins with that click baited title
again that you're often seeing when
you're working with B2B startups on the
marketing front what are those absolute
no
NOS yeah and I think this ties back into
my process and why I start with
um I don't start with what typically
clients come on to talk to or prospects
come on to talk to me in a call and
they're like we need to figure out in
our inbound engine and that's what they
say usually and I'm like but do you do
you need to figure out your inbound
engine right now or do you need to step
back and actually go under the covers
and see what's going on with your
foundational stuff your Basic Marketing
principles and understanding who are you
for do you know them enough do you
understand what they're going through do
you understand the impact that the
problem is having on them um and have
you had those conversations with enough
people with enough of your customer
super fans with enough warm prospects to
find that thread that continues to
repeat and pull out those insights and
use them in your messaging in your
positioning on your website wherever you
live online so that's that's a I would
say um is one of the most um You can
call it a deadly sin yeah I I would say
it's you know one of the biggest
problems that I encounter because when I
talk to early stage startups some of
them do get it they're like we need help
we're not sure how to message the right
way we're not sure if we understand who
our Target buyer is you know we're not
sure if we've really zeroed in on who
this person is can you help us right
yeah and can you help us figure out the
messaging and positioning but a lot of
times they just want to start that
inbound engine and get that you know
turn on the lever and get those leads
coming and and that's just not how it
works so that's the biggest one I would
say I like it so does that mean that
typically B2B start Founders are moving
too fast like are they are they thinking
right away like we need inbound we need
leads whether that's for themsel like
selling as a found or maybe they've got
kind of one or two Max sales folk
working with them and they want to feed
leads are they just thinking that that's
too early when really they need to do
some of the foundational stuff that you
touched on
yeah I mean I think moving fast early
stage is really important I think that
you should move fast I actually really
love it when I asked what marketing have
you done and they tell me we've tried
this we've tried that this didn't work
this had some good results I love that
um and I I think that that's that's
wonderful I then they understand that
things take time you need to do proper
you know prioritization of the things to
spend your time on I that you know
they're being thoughtful they're trying
they're testing marketing is all about
testing and I get some perspective on
things versus just starting completely
from a blank slate so I actually love
talking to early stage startup Founders
that have already started to test and
move quickly and try some things and
they give me feedback um so when you say
do they move too fast yeah I think so I
think they just like jump jump in
without doing um but they also don't
know what questions to ask right maybe
they don't know what questions to ask
how do we find out that common thread
for our positioning for our messaging I
think that a lot of them do have a sense
a general because they have to sell they
have to get customers things have to
work but the early customers that come
in a lot of times they're the ones that
are you know they're the friendlies
you're connected to them through your
VCS like hey you should talk to these
guys we also invested in them they could
use the product that you're building
right so um those types of sales
conversations look differently from like
the next 10 those first 10 look
different from the next 10 so you really
do have to get tighter around who are
you for what you're solving for them how
to position yourself how to get them to
you know go beyond the status quo of
what they're doing today and that's
really hard stuff and that's like
iterative it's never done um because of
this idea that like your first 10
customers look different from your next
10 from your next 10 right got it got it
a lot to dive into already a lot to dive
into so what do you typically see and we
can we can touch on some of the
foundational stuff like researching the
customers you're going after
understanding that the problems that
they're facing how you can address that
how you can overcome status quo with
your your messaging whether that's on
ads your your website and
Beyond what do you often see when early
stage startup Founders are coming to you
to for help with their marketing is
there often things that you see that
they've perhaps tried and maybe has gone
well or hasn't gone well or they quite
often like stick a load of cash in one
channel or one strategy and it's just
totally wrong thing to do when you need
something else in place
before uh it's all over the place um
it's I mean really when they try things
it's all over the place and
that's the problem and they're like
we've tried this we've tried that it's
all over the place and like they have a
sense of like well we should be putting
out content we should probably be on
this channel we're
trying there's no nothing's you know
nothing's really happening is it working
we're not sure we know we should be
writing some blog posts um we know we
should you know and and everything is
like we know we should be so we we're
doing doing it but is it working and
they're not sure how do you know
something is working like their their
expectations are maybe here and the
thing that they they've tried is here
um so yeah and I just got off a call
yesterday actually that's why this is
top of mind for me okay um the the
founders try all sorts of things right
because
they're they've got targets they've got
sales targets so um I got off a call
yesterday where we talked about how
they're getting thousands of website
visitors over a couple weeks and at
first I was like that's amazing you're
getting thousands of website visitors
great and then they're like yeah and
they're converting at you know
3.5% um
to CLI you know the call to action
that's on their homepage I'm like that's
amazing that's great you know that's
great that they're converting so you got
all these and then they're like well of
those people
we set up calls with four I'm like okay
four four four that's four that's not
zero and then and then I asked them well
how many of those four are qualified and
actually are you know an
opportunity and it's zero and so you're
starting from what sounds like amazing
numbers thousands of people come to your
site but then the does it turn into
anything and when it doesn't it's like
okay you're coming at it from the wrong
place you're coming at it from well
where are these people coming from ended
up being that they're getting the wrong
target audience to come to their site so
of course it's not turning into
opportunity and so I think the attention
is there they know they have to like go
out and talk about what they're building
but is it to the right person is it
somebody that's a decision maker is it
somebody that has the money to purchase
what you have to offer because
ultimately you have to make money right
it's a business
um and so the channels that they
actually end up going out and cre
spreading awareness and you know talking
about what they're building might be the
wrong one so it's wasted efforts so but
I really like to go through that right
have that conversation understand like
what have you tried what results are you
seeing and we can kind of like pick it
apart and see like is it working for you
no it's not okay so you have to kind of
like go back start from the foundational
stuff who are you for who's going to pay
for who has the pain point Who's going
to pay for the thing that you're making
and this is just like very foundational
work that should not be skipped yeah
yeah something we we see all the time
right it's like when when folks will say
to me well we've we've tried SEO but it
just didn't work and then what you found
out is that they basically said to their
marketing manager or their marketing
lead oh we've not really done any SEO
competitors are constantly showing ahead
of us in an organic search results when
people need our offer or compare us to
Alternatives they task them with putting
together a bunch of blog posts they pump
them through chat GPT a few months later
they've got a bit of an uptick in
traffic but none of it's converted
because there was no real strategy they
didn't identify what those Focus clients
were actually searching for when they
had a need they didn't build content to
to hit those pain points and resonate so
a little bit like what you've said there
with that founder that was perhaps
driving traffic maybe from I don't know
Facebook ads another Channel Wherever it
was but didn't yeah they were going
they're actually I think going in person
doing presentations so that so and
that's not easy right that's that's a
lot of time that's a lot of effort
that's not digital that's in person it's
not virtual so it's a lot of time effort
yeah that's right that's right got it
okay see yeah that's that's a good point
so we've we've said that kind of some of
the top deadly sins kind of wanting to
build an inbound engine perhaps too fast
all over the place marketing all over
the place content maybe getting the
wrong target tting the wrong channels
and then as a result not getting kind of
qualified prospects in through the door
right the other thing I've heard too
which is coming up a lot actually is
early stage startups they're still small
you got maybe five 10 people on the team
and they're doing both the product L
growth motion as well as an Enterprise
sales
motion right and those are very
different um and I think it's because
they haven't quite figured out which one
to go with like they could do both they
could
um but I almost want to be like you need
to pick you need to pick you just need
to you need to make those tough
decisions from the very beginning and
you need to just like feel it out right
so that by the time you talk to somebody
like me we have a pretty good road map
of where we want to go and who you know
you have to have a handful of customers
super fans that love you because
otherwise like don't bring someone in
yet like keep going keep trying keep
trying to like nail what who you're
building this thing for um or else it'll
be wasted effort working with like a
strategic marketing person to make those
efforts go further
faster yeah I can imagine I mean I
appreciate Founders are ambitious like
I'd like to think I was the same but
then I suppose if your targeting is so
vastly different like for example at one
end of the spectrum you're trying to get
a bunch of free signups for a product
leg growth plg motion and perhaps that's
like lower down the market maybe startup
level businesses or mid Market you want
to work with and on the other side
you're trying to acquire huge Enterprise
clients for big ticket deals that super
long so that looks so different vastly
different and if someone's landing on
your homepage and you're trying to
appeal like on your website you're
trying to appeal to both kind of maybe
startups to get a free trial at the same
time huge Enterprise clients like that's
going to be so messy I'd imagine in
terms of your messaging in your
offer right right and that doesn't mean
to sit like I'm not saying you can't do
that you can it's just like after you
figured something out not from the
get-go so for example like I I'm a um
nadic advisor and on their pricing page
you can see that they have a plan like
one seat and it's $50 a month and it's
great for startups right right but they
also have
Enterprise you know more
custom um package and so for that
someone has to get on a call and like
talk through what their needs are right
and how many seats and all that stuff
and it's going to be more
custom um but they did not have that 50
you know they did not have the $50 one
seat plan they added it on just recently
they've been you know doing this for
years so I think you build that out over
time but not just like both ends of the
spectrum right away that's my I
mean that's that's my recommendation
because it's just like to you want to
really zero in on who you're for it's
just going to be really hard to do that
if you have two completely different
Target buyers in mind and usually you
should just have one one like one
decision maker um one user right and
that should be
enough yeah yeah it's going to be it's
going to be tough as well especially if
you've got like limited funding or if
you're bootstrapped and you're trying to
go after such a massive amount of
different types of clients it's it's
going to cut your ad spend dry it's
going to probably harm your messaging
it's going to get confusing if you've
got a sales team um yeah so that
strategy is key Okay so we've talked
about kind of some of those deadly
sins let's get into how we can get B2B
founders startup marketing teams on the
right tracks you touched on a few of the
points around kind of customer research
understanding problems you fix uh
understanding your target buyers getting
first 10 customers under your belt is is
that what you should be doing or is
there almost a step when you're talking
to early stage Founders that you say
look this is what you got to do first
before you do anything else get those
customers like I I can't I can't start
my projects with early stage startups
unless they have customer super fans
like 5 to 10 because then I'm going to
be talking to them I I schedule one hour
long conversations with their customer
super fans and just customers and warm
prospects and also I've talked to lapsed
buyers as well like that's really
fascinating because they shouldn't be
lapsed and there's a reason why they are
like something just was not a good fit
and I want to uncover why that is that's
really interesting information
to so get those customers and figure out
how to close
deals first before you you know you want
to figure that out before you start
revving up the marketing foundational
you know marketing work not not
foundational stuff but marketing engine
stuff yeah yeah yeah so so naturally you
want to get some customers in the door
and you touched on earlier whether
that's leveraging your network past
clients Partnerships if you are funded I
imagine sometimes VCS can can link you
up to potential prospects that's right
but basically like I've done with
breaking B2B and I'm sure you were the
same when you started up your your
customers it's Sweat Equity really isn't
it it's putting in the graph putting in
the hours to realize like who can I tap
up who can I message who can I call
maybe what podcast can I guest on what
are The Sweat Equity things that I can
do that aren't going to cost a ton of
cash but are going to cost my time to
bring those leads in the door yeah
that's it that that's what I did I um
emailed my network and I was like I'm
doing this thing now do you need any
help and that's how it starts that's how
the ball starts rolling got it I um I
don't want to spend too long on customer
research because we had folks like Ryan
Paul Gibson and stuff like that on on
the show giving kind of tips and
insights on how you should run customer
interviews are there any few are there
any kind of focused in insights that you
tend to lean towards grabbing from those
customer calls
um when I really try to zero in on
what's the value what's the biggest
value that this having this product
gives you and they tell they start
telling me and I really want to dig like
why is that important to you um I think
that that really is what I try to focus
on because I want to figure out what is
the differentiated value of the product
because that really comes in handy when
you're talking about position in
positioning yourself in the marketplace
positioning against you know status quo
which is the biggest competitor
typically and um and so that's really
what I look for like the Common Thread
that's all about what is the unique
value you're
getting from this product I also um ask
like what's the trigger that made you
want to reach out a lot of times though
the early customers they're like oh I
got connected through so and so and I'm
like oh that's not going to like the
trigger that I want to hear that's not
really helpful but that's sometimes
interesting right like I couldn't take
it anymore I was using spreadsheets and
blah blah blah and this and like this
process didn't work anymore and I was
looking for another
solution um and then I just get to like
one of the things I enjoy about voice to
customer research is getting to know
that person I've talked to people from
like in all types of companies doing all
sorts of roles although I do tend to
have more client sents that are in edte
and devtech completely different too by
the way like more you know edtech is
more just education is completely
different industry and even gov Tech
stuff I've worked in um so I just like
get to know with clean slate what does
this person do what do they do in their
job I I had no idea that this job exists
or like I had no idea that they had all
this oversight and I had no idea how
hard of these challenges are for them
wow that must be so rough I find out so
much interesting
information and um and so that's kind of
what creates like the more that you get
to know about customers people say this
all the time I feel like I'm repeating
myself but the more you can like get
into their shoes and have empathy for
their situation and not just focus on we
have a product for you will you buy it
we have this thing that we built will
you pay for it right it's more about
them and understanding their pain points
and understanding who they are as a
person and like why they would find what
you built for them valuable gotcha Okay
so we've got 10 customers we've
interviewed said 10 customers or you've
done that for them perhaps an Outsiders
done that for
them where are we utilizing these
insights how can we pull these nuggets
that we've learned and put them into
marketing action yeah I mean my process
is very Bare Bones it's just like I take
notes and then I hi I go back in and I
look and I highlight and I look across
the people and I look to see like okay
this person said this is it similar to
what that person said like they have a
similar job title sometimes I get job
titles that are different so you have to
like look at the nuances and understand
like this person is higher level this
person is lower level they might be
thinking about you know the usage of the
product in different ways but I
highlight those things that are common
threads and I start to and I put
together a marketing Foundation deck so
um this each slide is basically like why
do we exist who are we for what are we
offering what are we building for them
top unique benefits top unique features
everything is just like very clearly
laid out um features of our product
competitors analysis positioning
messaging and then we do some key
keyword research after that so I like to
go into this deck it's like really
structured and it's for the whole team
to come back to not just for your
marketing person not just for me as I
work with my clients but the whole team
then is on the same page a lot of times
early stage startups don't have that
same page place it's all in the founders
heads right this creates like this is
you know this is where we're all on the
same page so that we can talk about what
we're building in the same way on sales
calls we can you know make sure that our
website messaging is on point and if
it's not then we update it make sure
that our you know business pages on
social media are on point and if it's
not then we update it so it's like a
nice central location for
everything nice okay all right so we put
it all basically into a deck that's
highlighting the common I'm guessing the
patterns and the feedback that we're
getting around perhaps kind of problems
that they were facing impact of the
problem yes perhaps why they chose to
with you as opposed to a competitor um
yeah and I actually go through and like
highlight in the deck too right so that
we we zero in on like what are the key
things that people said I like to bring
direct quotes from conversations and
include it in the deck nice yeah got it
yeah yeah so it's using the actual words
I guess out the customer mouth
customer's mouth as opposed to random
ideas or jargon or yeah another another
turbocharged or 20x headline
as we as we often see in Tech or that's
right deadly
sinsy deadly B startup
marketing deadly that's quite T that's
quite tame compared to some of my
headlines um cool so we've got that
there we've got the deck and we've got a
message from car but we'll get that in a
second Carl so we've got deck together
what what comes next do we start kind of
putting this this into play on some
channels like what is the how do we put
all this Intel that we've gathered into
into best use into a play Yeah The Next
Step usually is okay we're going to now
we need to revamp our website because
the website was kind of made with good
intentions but we realize how off we are
you know the positioning is not quite
right or like the images we're showing
or we're missing case studies or we're
missing testimonials or we're Miss just
like we're missing a bunch of we're
missing a one Lev deeper product page
we're missing um just like an easy way
to navigate like the top navigation bar
the top header Banner all that stuff
right so it's time then it's time to
revamp the website what I like to do
before revamping the website is actually
bring in my SEO expert we do keyword
research um because I want to understand
like are we using the right terms are
there other terms that we should change
change um just given that you know
there's a lot of competition for terms
like this is there a better way to talk
about what we
do uh and then also should we create
some new landing pages not just like the
typical five pages that we create when
we're revamping a website but doesn't
make sense to create some other landing
pages maybe like us versus competition
right when people are botom a funnel and
they're they they're expecting to see
the um compar a comparison page because
it's just like everybody talks about
that competitor you want to understand
what's the difference right so put it on
your website so it's very clear um so
doing that keyword research is helpful
and then we move into the website work
so working on the brand design guide the
brand design guide is something that I
put
together and um it helps the
designer understand like what's what's
going to be what what are the mood
boards right which what mood board
options should he put together so things
like okay we we want these types of
colors we don't want these types of
colors these types of visuals do we want
something sketched do we want something
like photos do we want something super
colorful what's the personality is it
going to be vibrant is it going to be
simple clean like there's so many
different directions to take so this
brand design guide helps a designer with
the next step which is the mood boards
the mood of the site um and so before
even work at like any wire framing out
of the homepage or product page or
whatever like we look at the mood of the
site which is actually one of the fun
things because there's so much you can
do you could you can like make it super
dark you can make it super light and
Airy you can make it playful you can
make it
geometric um it's it's a great like I am
an I I love um design like at heart
right so I have fun with with this with
my designer and I like to be really
involved in this process so mood boards
that's what he works on and then we
start
creating the first page the homepage
obviously the most important part of
your website so I wireframe out the the
homepage and that kicks off the website
um creation process nice nice so a lot
there
something how do you tackle with
websites like when cuz I I have my point
of view on this we've done so many solo
episodes where I talk about B2B website
design messaging process and SEO and all
that good stuff you've touched on there
how do you balance what a Founder wants
out of the website I.E they want it this
style they've seen a competitor that
does it like this and they want these
these colors they want the they want the
message to say how great the product is
as opposed to using all this research
that we've gathered from actual
customers what they care about doing
improving or actioning how do you get
that bance when the founder has their
perspective of what's good and what we
actually know is going to work based on
customer research or what's likely to
work I should say because you never 100%
know this
stuff I work with early stage Founders
that like I love it when they tell me
what they love and what they hate and
like I always ask for examples what are
Brands you love what are websites you
love what are Brands you hate what are
websites you hate that's really helpful
if it's like crickets that's really hard
then I have to come up with everything
myself right
um I also in general work with
Founders that um are open to like what
do you think what do you think we should
do and then they also like we we talk
about the data part the facts the facts
are your competitors look like this we
don't want to look like that so we have
to go a completely different direction
and I think that they are nobody's
really pushed back on that sort of thing
I think the larger companies like the
clients I've had that are 80 100
people typically I'm not revamping their
website but I am working on like a
couple pages of the website for example
they need other landing
pages um then it's really hard to be
like oh you guys should have gone with
like a different personality because
look how you're blending in and you
could have really had more fun with that
and so that's a little bit harder but I
feel like early stage startup Founders
are super open to my guidance and they
just want to you know have fun with it
and also use the data use the facts that
they're getting um that I'm providing
for them right with like let's look at
the competition let's see what they look
like so I don't know do you experience
that do you experience push back um I
think like it's appreciated like this is
what we found and this you knew this was
a process going in we were going to find
like a bunch of things and we're
actually going to now use the customer
in sites and um positioning stuff in on
your website so it's
typically I would say like the thing
that we do work on is what they're what
they're experiencing on their in their
sales conversations they also have that
knowledge like when I said it this way
that really made them understand when I
showed them this diagram that really
made like the things click so it's a
together we work together
in terms of like what do we showcase on
the homepage what do we showcase on the
website to make it click because they're
getting data too we use both sets right
what I get from talking to customers
what they get from talking to prospects
that then they turn into customers
gotcha gotcha to answer your question
not so much now for this business do I
get pushback because the of the way
we're positioned so it's very much you
can tell I'm the founder I very much
have a stance on B2B SEO and web design
I think a lot of folks that follow my
content are clear that how I position
that um whereas at my last agency where
we work with kind of a bunch of anything
from startup to to larger companies we
wouldn't always deal with the founders
or the marketing exacts we deal with all
site all types of all kinds of folks
within the organization so that is where
it leads to kind of people that perhaps
aren't appreciative of customer research
maybe want to push their own ideas as
opposed to going with kind of what
Target clients care about the problems
they fix the jobs they want to get done
the main things they want to quickly
learn see feel and take action upon on a
website in order to trust you enough to
book a call or book a demo so that was
when I used to get a lot of push back at
my last agency but since I've kind of
positioned with uh with breaking btb and
how we've sort set things up here not so
much um but that's that's how we've
geared up in in our messaging and the
way we go to market so yeah I think
that's I think that's an important thing
to to consider how you how you position
yourself and like you say taking a step
back because a lot of the a lot of where
business goes wrong is is when founders
have these big Egos and they think that
they know better than prospects or
customers when we certainly don't we've
we've usually got a warehouse full of
our stuff or we've got Unlimited Supply
of our software we don't need to
convince ourselves that we're the ones
to buy we need to convince our Target
clients that hit that Dem graphic have
those problems and have cash to invest
in improving their business or life
right totally going back to I by the way
I love breaking B2B just like that is
such a if I were to go back and rename
my my business which I'm not going to
rename it to break obviously but um I
didn't have any good idea when I started
my business so I'm like let's just use
my last name and add T tag on like
marketing Consulting but if I were to
change it I would do something where
it's really like very well positioned to
you know what are we going to what am I
going to do with you right now right you
wouldn't talk to somebody
that that that started a company called
breaking B2B if you weren't thinking of
like how to break the status quo of B2B
right if you were very traditional you
would not work with Sam because it just
doesn't match up so I I love that you
named your business breaking B2B I think
you're getting the right customers then
like trickling through hey appreciate it
appreciate it so okay we've covered some
good ground we've talked we talked about
kind of doing some customer research we
talked about leveraging the insights the
patterns then starting to put that into
play into uh I forgot what you called it
you called it some kind of deck or book
I can't remember brand brand design
guide that was one brand design guide oh
is it brand design guide or the
marketing Foundation deck I don't know I
think it's a marketing Foundation deck
then we talked about kind of using that
as a playbook for your organization and
then going on to to the website to then
use those insights on of course key
pages that you're going to build out um
the other thing because I want to talk a
little bit if we've got some time on on
kind of going to Market as well but the
other thing I I sometimes see is like
getting the balance right on websites
because sometimes Founders want to get
them out super quick and that's when you
might be quite thin on cont content
right and you might have like home about
features pricing book a call like five
or seven pages maybe start section but
then the other I guess the other balance
that you touched on is getting SEO right
and SEO as you know is is tough to do
with such a thin cop website if you only
got a few pages and you touched on some
good points around having competitive
Pages versus Pages alternative Pages
best of pages that kind of stuff so it's
often uh push pushes pushes back the
time line if you're if you're doing more
content on a website then I suppose it's
that Balancing Act of do we want it to
rank really on Google do you want to get
an MVP out or do you want to kind of get
SEO Masterpiece and and build out over
time right I don't recommend getting an
SEO Masterpiece in um when you're an
early stage startup I just I also just
don't think that like
some I think first of all it's wrong to
start with keyword research as the basis
for your content strategy I think like a
lot of marketers probably by now agree
but maybe there are some that are still
I don't know what you think Sam but I
think to what to we can talk about
content strategy we're not even talking
about that but where SEO comes into play
is more about like as you build your
initial website pages and we're not even
talking about like the other Pages like
the blog posts you want to like add some
top topics that you want to you know put
put on your blog um I'm just talking
about like are we using the right word
words with our positioning are there
other words that we might want to like
in this space that we might want to
start to use um sometimes also we talk
about category design and um like we
don't really quite fit into a category
that's out there but we we think like
this these three words would better
explain what we're doing and so we have
those conversations too but the um SEO
work like my my stance on that is you
can't you don't have to be perfect with
it but once you put together your
content strategy you might have some
ideas of like let's get these P we know
we need to get these Pages we know we
need to work on you know these specific
Pages let's get them going but it's not
like okay one blog post a week right
let's get one one to two blog posts a
week it's not like that it's more of
like one a month and what's it going to
be about what are the ones that we
should get on our list right now and
make them really good and that's it and
and I would you know spend more time on
other things like you know case studies
do we have case studies are they good
are they clearly there available on the
website so so that also is really
important for bottom of
funnel yeah it's it's a fair point in
fact I'm quite the opposite most
Founders I tell to completely ignore SEO
for a while I say get to a certain
amount of recurring Revenue then give a
damn about SEO because you need
customers in the door you need to prove
concept you need you need scalable
revenue and unless we've got kind of
resource or cash that's been invested
into the company to to make SEO a good
bet and kind of pump pump some decent
resource and get some decent content
flowing there's no point in half asking
it there's no point in just like doing
like you no point trying to trying to
scrap scrape yourself thin when as a
Founder really you could be a lot more
better position to do other part aspects
of the business that are going to grow
Revenue until you've got that cash flow
or that resource in place to make SEO a
decent bet um yeah because it's it's not
cheap it's not cheap to get I mean happy
to work on it like I've got the SEO
expert but it's it's a a a lot of effort
it's not cheap it takes a long time and
do you really need to rank you know
first or second or third or are there
other things where your time could be
better
spent so last one before we wrap things
up we've like I said we've C some ground
when it comes to let Let's Pretend we've
got like a nice we've put all our
Research into a decent like stage one
website using all these insights that
we've garnered from customer research
and more when it comes to kind of
initial channels and feel free to use
perhaps your own business and example
because I know that was a question we
were going to get into kind of your top
inbound Channel when it comes to
Founders and initially going to Market
how would you normally advise them like
when it's when it is saying that they
they've already got their 10 customers
they've perhaps got from from Network or
or similar existing relationships
Partnerships VCS contacts whatever yeah
how do you go about determining
that yeah I mean we go through um a
whole workshop on this prioritize your
marketing channels and figuring out your
content strategy so the the where I like
to start is um I we list I'll list out
all the possible channels like
everything is we can we can do anything
there's tons of things that we could do
and then we go through like this
exercise where we rate them based on a
how easy is it to implement based on the
current team that we have and B how much
impact do we expect and I would say like
how e both of these things you need a
little bit of guidance because
especially if you haven't experimented
with marketing channels and like putting
out content and doing you know social
media um posts and you don't really
know how much effort it is you don't
really know how easy it is you don't
know how the algorithm impacts things
you don't you know so it's nice to have
somebody that has seen how things are
working across clients has seen how
things work across channels because I
also you know I'm I've got a podcast I'm
on LinkedIn I have a newsletter letter
I'm not saying that I'm 100% doing
amazing at everything right but I get a
good sense of how things work and how
things work together and how much effort
it takes right so having like a partner
that has that information to help you
navigate when you're raing this sort of
thing that's really helpful um plus it's
helpful if they've tried some stuff like
we tried this we realize like doing
in-person events is and getting people
together at this bar every
Thursday it's been great but it's hard
right and we only got these people not
the people that are our Target buyers so
that didn't work right I'm just making
this up but actually I I think I spoke
to someone on my podcast and that was
one of their plays they would just be
like everybody come and then people
would have drinks and socialize and then
they would like win deals from that
happy hour that they
created so the sky limit there are a ton
of different things that you can do
priority prioritizing is super important
because what I found is working across
clients you know working on my own stuff
everything works I don't know Sam if you
agree with this but like everything
works it's just a matter of making sure
that you're not just blindly doing it
you you do you did have those um voice
to customer convers ations you did find
out how they consume content where they
hang out online where they hang out
offline what events do they go to what's
their Network situation like do they
what communities are they in all that
stuff you have learned that so you're
not going at it blindly um and so then
you're more capable of prioritizing in a
more like thoughtful way yeah um so I
think the hard part then is like how
much impact do we think this is going to
have how much impact do we think that
going full into an SEO strategy is going
to have on getting Pipeline and revenue
how much impact do we think that if we
do influencer marketing how much will
that impact our Pipeline and revenue and
those are the conversations that we have
I like it I like the idea of putting
together almost a list of every option
that there is from like a marketing
whether that's covering like you said
influence or marketing ads SEO paid
review sites posting ourselves on
LinkedIn starting email list starting a
podcast starting a YouTube channel you
literally list every option out I love
that and then you exhaust it and then
you kind of think what is actually
realistic like do we have funding behind
us or are we boot up like what's going
to be sensible here what is going to
give us the quickest return um and maybe
you think like maybe you balance out
maybe you do like there's a couple Sweat
Sweat Equity things we can do like maybe
we do a podcast and that kind of fuels
our content strategy for LinkedIn and
maybe an email list but that's a bit of
a push so I'd probably just say LinkedIn
a podcast um and then you say look we're
going to do it as a bi-weekly to start
with so it's low lift or or monthly um
yep and may we we interview like one ICP
a month or we do one so episode one
month one interview ICP the next month
whatever Cadence suits and then you
think well this is very nuanced to where
your target market hang out but maybe
you think well our target market is
searching on Google so investing into
paid search makes sense to get some
leads in the door and likewise they're
comparing review sites so investing in
G2 or whatever review site is relent to
us it's going to get us some leads in
the door so that will be our kind of
first couple months then when we've got
that cash flow from there will maybe
ramp up outbound or ramp up SEO or
whatever makes sense so working out all
the options weaving in that customer
research of where they hang out and then
perhaps doing a bit of Sweat Equity
stuff your I think is a a nice balance I
would have thought yeah and two things
so the first thing is that's why I think
it's so important to take in like who do
you have on the team and different
companies are built in different ways
and you might have somebody that is
amazing with video so how do you
leverage that person's skill right they
haven't been doing video they've been
doing something completely different but
we know they have that skill set so
taking that into account and like
Founders they're naturally good at
podcasting they want to do that like you
take that into account because it's not
the same if you can't if you have
something like that that further helps
you differentiate from the other
startups out there where they don't have
somebody with that skill set that can
help with you know the content strategy
pieces and content distribution so um
that's for the marketing channels then
we talk about the content strategy which
is like what are you actually going to
say and when I have my voice of customer
research conversations we talk about the
things that matter to them right so I
get some of that from there but I also
do a bunch of research on like what's
everyone else talking about and what are
the conversations that are still not
being had um what's Trend what are
trending topics right um and how can we
tie the product that we're building back
into the content that we're putting out
there so that it's really specific to us
and people think about us and and we
have you know original things to to say
based on
our leadership teams expertise or
whatnot so really finding that specific
content wedge for each company and then
we map out like okay that if we're going
to do this type of content across these
channels what does that look like what
is our go-to Market plan and having like
one page that makes it really easy to
just like see and then go and either
they take it on sometimes the founders
take it on sometimes they have you know
people on the team rarely they have
people on the team that will take it on
but sometimes the founders will take at
the early stage startups I work with
yeah and so and so now what I've started
doing is because I see them need is like
okay you've helped us with the Strategic
stuff now help us get this going um I
have a couple of people now that I think
this is going to start happening more
and more where because of AI tools that
are at our disposal people can people
like fractional um heads of marketing
can help clients with executing on that
go-to market strategy and creating that
content and getting it out there so it's
pretty exciting to see this I'm sure
I'll be see more more of this um you
know getting more involved not just on
the strategy piece but also execution
piece as a
fractional nice nice one we don't often
get questions but we've had a quick
question I'm happy to give my two cents
if you want to give your two cents
perhaps an you's got some might have
some thoughts on this Kyle has asked us
do you ever advise Founders on hiring
for the marketing
team and if so what knowledge or
experience to hire
for yeah I have yeah um some times
they'll they'll show me the um you know
the the blurb of like the hiring uh what
they're hiring for my advice um for who
to hire as your first marketer is
basically like take somebody like me and
like a I'm fractional how of marketing
you want to find that in the full-time
person so somebody that is really good
at product marketing plus content
marketing somebody that's really good at
product marketing plus growth marketing
right and um like pick the two things
that uh that a person is really good at
I would say like either a mesh of those
two first things that I said or a mesh
of the other two things and bring them
in because they're the ones that are you
you just product marketing you need from
the get-go you need someone that
understands how to weave in insights how
to position you know cont content is
marketing so you need somebody that
understands you know the product the
content or the product and the growth
and how to use the content to create um
and close demand so yes to answer your
question and that's who I recommend to
hire first I don't know Sam if you had
other
thoughts you're probably say giving a
much more sensible advice than me mine
is like I'm I'm far from a hiring expert
right mine would be before you even
think about hiring as a Founder get to a
certain level of monthly recurring
Revenue where you can know that it's not
only going to be comfortable to take on
this higher but it's going to be
absolutely fine and you'll have a good
few months Runway left then I would say
I wouldn't even be that encouraged to
hire a marketer first I'd rather go for
someone that's almost a jack of all
trades so they understand B2B marketing
but if we need them to do a few other
bits and pieces perhaps be involved in
some project management account
management maybe some a little bit of
sales maybe help us with content if
they're open to that flexibility and
they realize this is a Super Fresh
startup and they are going to get
chucked every every task the reason I
say that is because when I got into this
kind of world 13 years ago that's
basically how I got chucked in at the
deep end and there's no quicker learning
curve so as long as the person that you
hire on board knows that's what's going
down and I think that can be a really
valuable asset to a startup yeah don't
hire somebody that's never experienced
the startup World um because it's very
different and you do have to take I I
had these experiences too like my job
description did not say that I when I
was working at Fuda it's it was a series
a startup back then um that I had to
like plate food and take photos of it I
had to literally like put my hands over
food it was food delivery food popup
restaurants inside Office Buildings and
I had to like touch the food and make it
look be I never had experience doing
this before but you're absolutely right
you're going to get involved in things
you never expected to get involved in
now I know so much about how to plate
food I can totally do it for you Sam if
you ever need that but yeah don't don't
hire someone that has that expects
structure and expects that the job
description is listing exactly what
they're going to work on good nice good
way to wrap it up Anna very much
appreciate you coming on the show and
sharing your wisdom all things startup
marketing so with that please do tell
the audience more about how they can
learn from you connect with you yeah get
in touch I'm on LinkedIn every single
week um so find me there and my podcast
as you mentioned modern startup
marketing so check that out give it a
review if you've been following me I get
folks telling me like thank you so much
I love listening to you um somebody
yesterday was like I love listening to
you you've got the same Midwestern
accent as I do and I'm like okay if
that's why you listen to me sure um so
those are the the main two places
LinkedIn listen to my podcast and you
can check out my website fov
marketing.com thanks so much Sam this
was fun no W really enjoyed it I will
put all of those links Below in the
description and with that thanks once
again Anna and thanks to the audience
for tuning in and if you want to check
out any of our past podcast episodes
or'll try out the daily B2B email tips
and head over to breaking bb.com and
with that we'll catch you on the next
one for more no BS actionable tips to
grow your B2B company catch you soon
[Music]